Using TypeScript and AWS SAM templates, I want you to create a Lambda function that will be triggered by a message in an SQS queue.  The queue already exists - so make the Queue ARN a parameter on the SAM template.   The Lambda function , when triggered by a message in the queue, will read a DynamoDB table named "TodoItems-dev" (But make this configurable via Environment Variable) and produce a CSV export of the items in that table (all items).   You can do a "Scan" to get the items and just dump all the attributes to the csv format.  Do NOT hardcode any column names, in case we expand the dynamodb schema later.  The CSV data (including a header line with the attribute names) should be written to a location in an S3 bucket (Bucket patch specified in Environment variable).  The bucket already exists, no need to create it, but should be a parameter to the SAM template so you can default the Environment variable in the lambda.    Lastly, the Lambda should drop a message into an SNS topic to inform the user that their Export file is now available, and include the Object URL so they can download the file (assume the bucket is public).  The Topic Arn will be a parameter to the SAM template, and should be conveyed to the Lambda function using an environment variable.   Lastly, when writing this Lambda function be sure to use async/await for the operations such as putitem to the bucket and the topic message etc.   Be sure to create a customer managed iam policy that is attached to the Lambda execution role that includes the relevant permissions for the Queue, Topic, DynamoDB table, and S3 bucket.