README.md, before:

# AWS Todo Export Lambda

A TypeScript-based AWS Lambda function that exports DynamoDB todo items to CSV format when triggered by SQS messages. The function scans a DynamoDB table, converts all items to CSV with dynamic headers, uploads the file to S3, and sends a notification via SNS.

Generated with Cline and Anthropic Claude Sonnet 4.1

## Architecture

- **Trigger**: SQS Queue message
- **Data Source**: DynamoDB table (configurable)
- **Storage**: S3 bucket for CSV exports
- **Notification**: SNS topic for completion alerts
- **Runtime**: Node.js 18.x with TypeScript

## Features

- ✅ Dynamic CSV generation (no hardcoded column names)
- ✅ Handles large datasets with DynamoDB pagination
- ✅ Comprehensive error handling and logging
- ✅ Async/await for all AWS operations
- ✅ Custom IAM policy with least-privilege permissions
- ✅ Configurable via environment variables
- ✅ TypeScript for type safety

## Prerequisites

- AWS CLI configured
- AWS SAM CLI installed
- Node.js 18.x or later
- Existing SQS queue, S3 bucket, and SNS topic

## Project Structure

```
├── src/
│   ├── handler.ts          # Main Lambda function
│   └── types.ts           # TypeScript interfaces
├── template.yaml          # SAM template
├── package.json          # Dependencies
├── tsconfig.json         # TypeScript configuration
└── README.md            # This file
```

## Installation

1. Clone the repository and install dependencies:
```bash
npm install
```

2. Build the TypeScript code:
```bash
npm run build
```

## Deployment

### Using SAM CLI

1. Build the application:
```bash
sam build
```

2. Deploy with guided deployment (first time):
```bash
sam deploy --guided
```

You'll be prompted for the following parameters:
- **SQSQueueArn**: ARN of your existing SQS queue
- **S3BucketName**: Name of your existing S3 bucket
- **SNSTopicArn**: ARN of your existing SNS topic
- **DynamoDBTableName**: Name of your DynamoDB table (default: TodoItems-dev)

3. For subsequent deployments:
```bash
sam deploy
```

### Manual Parameter Example

```bash
sam deploy \
  --parameter-overrides \
    SQSQueueArn=arn:aws:sqs:us-east-1:123456789012:todo-export-queue \
    S3BucketName=my-todo-exports-bucket \
    SNSTopicArn=arn:aws:sns:us-east-1:123456789012:todo-export-notifications \
    DynamoDBTableName=TodoItems-dev
```

## Configuration

### Environment Variables

The Lambda function uses the following environment variables (automatically set by SAM):

- `DYNAMODB_TABLE_NAME`: DynamoDB table to scan for todo items
- `S3_BUCKET_NAME`: S3 bucket for storing CSV exports
- `SNS_TOPIC_ARN`: SNS topic for sending notifications

### IAM Permissions

The function includes a custom IAM policy with the following permissions:

- **SQS**: ReceiveMessage, DeleteMessage, GetQueueAttributes
- **DynamoDB**: Scan on the specified table
- **S3**: PutObject, PutObjectAcl on the specified bucket
- **SNS**: Publish to the specified topic

## Usage

### Triggering an Export

Send a message to your configured SQS queue. The message content can be anything - the Lambda function will process any message as a trigger to start the export process.

Example using AWS CLI:
```bash
aws sqs send-message \
  --queue-url https://sqs.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/123456789012/todo-export-queue \
  --message-body "Start todo export"
```

### Export Process

1. **SQS Trigger**: Lambda function receives SQS message
2. **DynamoDB Scan**: Scans the entire todo table with pagination
3. **CSV Generation**: Creates CSV with dynamic headers based on all item attributes
4. **S3 Upload**: Uploads CSV file with timestamp-based naming
5. **SNS Notification**: Sends notification with download URL

### Output

- **CSV File**: Stored in S3 with naming pattern: `todo-export-YYYY-MM-DDTHH-mm-ss-sssZ.csv`
- **Download URL**: Public URL format: `https://your-bucket.s3.amazonaws.com/todo-export-timestamp.csv`
- **SNS Message**: JSON formatted notification with file details

## CSV Format

The CSV export includes:
- **Header Row**: All unique attribute names from DynamoDB items (sorted alphabetically)
- **Data Rows**: All items with proper escaping for special characters
- **Empty Values**: Represented as empty quoted strings `""`
- **Complex Types**: Objects/arrays are JSON stringified

Example CSV output:
```csv
"createdAt","description","id","priority","status"
"2023-09-16T10:30:00Z","Buy groceries","todo-1","high","pending"
"2023-09-16T11:00:00Z","Walk the dog","todo-2","medium","completed"
```

## Development

### Local Development

1. Install dependencies:
```bash
npm install
```

2. Build TypeScript:
```bash
npm run build
```

3. Run tests (when implemented):
```bash
npm test
```

### Code Structure

- **handler.ts**: Main Lambda function with SQS event handling
- **types.ts**: TypeScript interfaces for type safety
- **template.yaml**: SAM template with IAM policies and configuration

## Monitoring

The function logs extensively to CloudWatch Logs:
- Message processing details
- DynamoDB scan progress
- S3 upload confirmation
- SNS notification status
- Error details with stack traces

## Error Handling

- **Validation**: Checks for required environment variables
- **DynamoDB**: Handles pagination and empty results
- **S3**: Proper error handling for upload failures
- **SNS**: Notification failure handling
- **SQS**: Message processing errors are re-thrown for Lambda retry logic

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Permission Denied**: Verify IAM policies match your resource ARNs
2. **Table Not Found**: Check DynamoDB table name and region
3. **S3 Upload Failed**: Verify bucket exists and permissions are correct
4. **SNS Publish Failed**: Check topic ARN and permissions

### Logs

Check CloudWatch Logs for the Lambda function:
```bash
aws logs describe-log-groups --log-group-name-prefix /aws/lambda/your-function-name
```

## License

MIT License - see LICENSE file for details.

Commit message:

Lambda can be manually invoked via Test button

README.md, after:

# AWS Todo Export Lambda

A TypeScript-based AWS Lambda function that exports DynamoDB todo items to CSV format when triggered by SQS messages. The function scans a DynamoDB table, converts all items to CSV with dynamic headers, uploads the file to S3, and sends a notification via SNS.

Generated with Cline and Anthropic Claude Sonnet 4.1

## Architecture

- **Trigger**: SQS Queue message
- **Data Source**: DynamoDB table (configurable)
- **Storage**: S3 bucket for CSV exports
- **Notification**: SNS topic for completion alerts
- **Runtime**: Node.js 18.x with TypeScript

## Features

- ✅ Dynamic CSV generation (no hardcoded column names)
- ✅ Handles large datasets with DynamoDB pagination
- ✅ Comprehensive error handling and logging
- ✅ Async/await for all AWS operations
- ✅ Custom IAM policy with least-privilege permissions
- ✅ Configurable via environment variables
- ✅ TypeScript for type safety

## Prerequisites

- AWS CLI configured
- AWS SAM CLI installed
- Node.js 18.x or later
- Existing SQS queue, S3 bucket, and SNS topic

## Project Structure

```
├── src/
│   ├── handler.ts          # Main Lambda function
│   └── types.ts           # TypeScript interfaces
├── template.yaml          # SAM template
├── package.json          # Dependencies
├── tsconfig.json         # TypeScript configuration
└── README.md            # This file
```

## Installation

1. Clone the repository and install dependencies:
```bash
npm install
```

2. Build the TypeScript code:
```bash
npm run build
```

## Deployment

### Using SAM CLI

1. Build the application:
```bash
sam build
```

2. Deploy with guided deployment (first time):
```bash
sam deploy --guided
```

You'll be prompted for the following parameters:
- **SQSQueueArn**: ARN of your existing SQS queue
- **S3BucketName**: Name of your existing S3 bucket
- **SNSTopicArn**: ARN of your existing SNS topic
- **DynamoDBTableName**: Name of your DynamoDB table (default: TodoItems-dev)

3. For subsequent deployments:
```bash
sam deploy
```

### Manual Parameter Example

```bash
sam deploy \
  --parameter-overrides \
    SQSQueueArn=arn:aws:sqs:us-east-1:123456789012:todo-export-queue \
    S3BucketName=my-todo-exports-bucket \
    SNSTopicArn=arn:aws:sns:us-east-1:123456789012:todo-export-notifications \
    DynamoDBTableName=TodoItems-dev
```

## Configuration

### Environment Variables

The Lambda function uses the following environment variables (automatically set by SAM):

- `DYNAMODB_TABLE_NAME`: DynamoDB table to scan for todo items
- `S3_BUCKET_NAME`: S3 bucket for storing CSV exports
- `SNS_TOPIC_ARN`: SNS topic for sending notifications

### IAM Permissions

The function includes a custom IAM policy with the following permissions:

- **SQS**: ReceiveMessage, DeleteMessage, GetQueueAttributes
- **DynamoDB**: Scan on the specified table
- **S3**: PutObject, PutObjectAcl on the specified bucket
- **SNS**: Publish to the specified topic

## Usage

The Lambda function supports two invocation methods:

### 1. SQS Queue Trigger (Production)

Send a message to your configured SQS queue. The message content can be anything - the Lambda function will process any message as a trigger to start the export process.

Example using AWS CLI:
```bash
aws sqs send-message \
  --queue-url https://sqs.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/123456789012/todo-export-queue \
  --message-body "Start todo export"
```

### 2. Manual Invocation (Testing)

You can also invoke the Lambda function directly from the AWS Console or CLI for testing purposes. The function will automatically detect manual invocation and run the export process directly.

Example using AWS CLI:
```bash
aws lambda invoke \
  --function-name your-function-name \
  --payload '{}' \
  response.json
```

Or use the "Test" button in the AWS Lambda Console with any test event.

### Export Process

1. **SQS Trigger**: Lambda function receives SQS message
2. **DynamoDB Scan**: Scans the entire todo table with pagination
3. **CSV Generation**: Creates CSV with dynamic headers based on all item attributes
4. **S3 Upload**: Uploads CSV file with timestamp-based naming
5. **SNS Notification**: Sends notification with download URL

### Output

- **CSV File**: Stored in S3 with naming pattern: `todo-export-YYYY-MM-DDTHH-mm-ss-sssZ.csv`
- **Download URL**: Public URL format: `https://your-bucket.s3.amazonaws.com/todo-export-timestamp.csv`
- **SNS Message**: JSON formatted notification with file details

## CSV Format

The CSV export includes:
- **Header Row**: All unique attribute names from DynamoDB items (sorted alphabetically)
- **Data Rows**: All items with proper escaping for special characters
- **Empty Values**: Represented as empty quoted strings `""`
- **Complex Types**: Objects/arrays are JSON stringified

Example CSV output:
```csv
"createdAt","description","id","priority","status"
"2023-09-16T10:30:00Z","Buy groceries","todo-1","high","pending"
"2023-09-16T11:00:00Z","Walk the dog","todo-2","medium","completed"
```

## Development

### Local Development

1. Install dependencies:
```bash
npm install
```

2. Build TypeScript:
```bash
npm run build
```

3. Run tests (when implemented):
```bash
npm test
```

### Code Structure

- **handler.ts**: Main Lambda function with SQS event handling
- **types.ts**: TypeScript interfaces for type safety
- **template.yaml**: SAM template with IAM policies and configuration

## Monitoring

The function logs extensively to CloudWatch Logs:
- Message processing details
- DynamoDB scan progress
- S3 upload confirmation
- SNS notification status
- Error details with stack traces

## Error Handling

- **Validation**: Checks for required environment variables
- **DynamoDB**: Handles pagination and empty results
- **S3**: Proper error handling for upload failures
- **SNS**: Notification failure handling
- **SQS**: Message processing errors are re-thrown for Lambda retry logic

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Permission Denied**: Verify IAM policies match your resource ARNs
2. **Table Not Found**: Check DynamoDB table name and region
3. **S3 Upload Failed**: Verify bucket exists and permissions are correct
4. **SNS Publish Failed**: Check topic ARN and permissions

### Logs

Check CloudWatch Logs for the Lambda function:
```bash
aws logs describe-log-groups --log-group-name-prefix /aws/lambda/your-function-name
```

## License

MIT License - see LICENSE file for details.
